Welcome back everyone to the solution for Interview Question number three.
And these statistics section of the course.
So this is actually a really basic question it's more of a discussion question and it's asking what's
the difference between type 1 versus type 2 error.
So we're going to frame this in the terms of a hypothesis test then type 1 error is the false positive
and type 2 error is the false negative.
So let's go ahead and discuss these errors specifically in terms of the null hypothesis.
A type 1 error occurs when the null hypothesis is true.
But you ended up actually rejecting it and it is asserting something that is absent essentially a false
hit which is why it's called a false positive.
So a type 1 error.
It's also called a false positive basically a result.
In the case that a given condition is present when it's actually not present now a type 2 error occurs
when the null hypothesis was actually false but erroneously fails to be rejected.
And notice I'm using the terms fails to be rejected.
You should be using that specific phrase fails to be rejected.
It is failing to assert what is present or a miss.
And this is why it's also called a false negative or an actual hit was disregarded by the test and seen
as a miss in a test checking for a single condition with some sort of definitive result of true or false
so let's go ahead and go over some examples in terms of hypothesis and null hypothesis.
So let's say our hypothesis is adding water to toothpaste protects against cavities.
And the null hypothesis is then adding water to toothpaste has no effect on cavities.
So this no hypothesis is tested against experimental data with a view to nullifying it with evidence
to the contrary.
So a type 1 error occurs when detecting an effect such as adding water to toothpaste protects against
cavities.
That is not actually present.
Remember that's the false positive.
The null hypothesis is true.
For example it is true that adding water toothpaste has no effect on cavities.
But this null hypothesis is rejected based on bad experimental data.
Let's look at an example for the type to air.
Let's say our hypothesis was adding fluoride to toothpaste protects against cavities.
And the no hypothesis was adding fluoride toothpaste has no effect on cavities.
So there's no hypothesis test against experimental data with a view of nullifying it with evidence to
the contrary.
If a type 2 occurs when failing to detect an effect that is adding fluoride to base protects against
cavities that is present the null hypothesis is false.
Adding fluoride is actually effective against cavities.
But the experimental data such that the null hypothesis cannot be rejected.
So again I have a type 2 error or a false negative.
So everything we just said before are really formal explanations in terms of hypothesis testing of what
type 1 error is versus the type 2 error.
But if in case you ever want to just simplify things or have an easier way to remember the differences
between type on error and type 2 error I really like this pretty funny image here of indicating a false
positive versus a false negative.
So we can see here.
Here we have a man and the doctor saying you're pregnant.
So we definitely have a false positive.
We're seeing that some sort of hypothesis is true that the pregnancy was there when in fact it actually
wasn't a false positive there and then and type 2 error we have a false negative.
So here we see a woman who's clearly pregnant and the doctor saying you're not pregnant.
So we have some sort of situation where we were testing for a condition and that happens to be true
but we accidentally took it as not true.
So that's different than a false positive and a false negative.
OK.
Go ahead and check out the resources in the guidebook in case you're still a little more confused on
type 1 error or type 2 error.
Honestly it's usually more useful to think of them in terms of false positive or false negative.
And I hope this image serves as a funny but useful reminder of that.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.